All right, so I'm gonna
call you to the meeting area
like we normally do.
We're gonna be using
the robots today.
We're big on letting
the kids know
everything that's going on.
We're gonna be practicing
what we've been doing
with algorithms.
So, we always start
by letting them know
our expectations...
So, I have some Smarties
'cause I'm gonna be
giving them out to people
with smart answers.
...and then having
the kids know
what their expectations
are for the lessons.
So, I want to start
by going over
what we remember
about algorithms.
♪
We're going to watch
a video on algorithms
from Flocabulary,
and we're gonna learn
about algorithms again,
and you're gonna tell me
if you learned anything new.
♪ A set of steps
written with precision ♪♪
I learned some new things.
I want you to take
a minute to think.
We usually go
right into a discussion,
so I give them think time
and I give them
turn and talk time.
So, if you allow think time
for students,
it helps them focus
what they want to say.
They practice it
in their head.
Turn and talk,
and discuss what it is.
The teacher asks you a question
and then she tells you
to think,
and then we switch
and then we tell the person
what we think.
You're gonna hold all
the paperwork for your group.
So, in our school,
they're very big
on learning progressions
and every child learning
to their learning progression.
So, the way to do that,
I feel, in my classroom,
is by color coding things
so they don't panic as much
and they know
that they can do it,
they just have to productively
struggle through.
And it also gives them
growth mindset
to come out of that progression
and to try to get
into the next progression
by giving me their best effort
in their work.
So, in this lesson,
the activity was for them
to create algorithms
by rolling a die.
Each number from the die
matched up to a piece of code.
So, when they rolled the die,
they were able to choose
one of those blocks
from the Blockly app
and make it part
of their algorithm.
And they created
a random algorithm
and they were supposed to play
their algorithm on Dash,
watch what he does,
and then write
about what he did.
So, it was just a fun way
of getting them engaged
and learning that the codes
create an algorithm for Dash.
I would make an algorithm,
and then I would send it
to the robot
and then tap its head,
and then I would--
then it would do
what I told it to do.
I really liked how
she was able to control
the amount of robots
in one room
by limiting the blocks
that they were able to use.
Remember, you have to send it
to him first.
She was really focused
on just using blocks
that kept the robots
in one spot.
She was able to really use
a lot of devices
in a small space.
So, another management tool
that I have
are these flip books,
and the flip books
are there for the students,
and instead of raising hands,
I ask them to use
the flip books.
And the flip books
have three colors,
so the green color means
that they're doing fine
and they don't need a teacher.
If I see a group
that's on yellow
and they flip it to yellow,
it means they do need
a teacher,
but it's not an emergency
and they can keep working
until I'm ready.
Can I turn this back to green?
Okay.
And if they're on red,
I know to go to those groups
right away
because they can't
continue anything
until a teacher helps.
You guys are gonna write down
what happened now,
so talk about it together
as a group
and write down what happened.
Once you have all
your paperwork settled,
come in a discussion circle.
The discussion circles
are usually one giant
classroom circle
and the reason for this
is because I want the kids
to be able to start practicing
eye contact and body language,
and they need
to see each other.
And I was noticing that
students are very shy.
So, when you give a child
a microphone,
I feel like immediately
their confidence goes up...
-So cool.
-...they're excited
about what they're doing,
and because it's
on a microphone,
the rest of the class
is also watching
and they're paying
attention more.
I ask them to challenge
each other
by not only telling me
what they did,
but I have other groups
challenge that group
by asking them a HOTS question,
which is a higher order
thinking question,
about what they just said.
Did you have any struggles,
and if you did and why?
In my coding classes,
I provide the children
with time to do journaling.
When you're journaling,
you think of what
you're going to write about
and you're thinking
what coding is.
I like the journal
because it--I can look back
and see my memories.
And the journaling, for me,
is a way for them
to express themselves
and for me to see
how they feel about a topic
that we're doing at that time
or their understanding.
So, sometimes it might be
something that I ask them
and I need them to answer,
and I use it
as a form of assessment,
and other times, it's just
a way for them to share
because I can't get
to everybody
in a discussion circle.
And other times, it's just
a way for them to celebrate
something good that happened
or just kind of
go through the day
and kind of figure out
and reflect upon
what they need to work on.
Her use of, um,
the launch of her lesson,
she used a video
and she used--
she really activated
the students' prior knowledge
and she brought that
to the table.
I really liked
how Megan was able
to make the kids accountable
for all their learning.
They had checklists,
they had criteria
that they had to follow,
and I think it was
a really valuable tool
that I plan to use
when I go back to my school.
I like that I'm adding
to opportunities
for their careers
in the future,
and I just can tell
that the kids are so into it,
and I get so much more
out of them
during coding lessons
than in any other subjects.
In other subjects,
I sometimes tell them
exactly what they need
to change,
whereas in computer science,
they're coming up with ideas
that I would have never
even thought of.
Why don't we come up
with our own ideas?
♪